LINKMAP Documentation
Copyright (C) 1984, 1985
NightOwl Software, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

-----------------------------

LINKMAP is a simple utility to dump MicroSoft REL files to the console in a
form similar to that of DUMP.COM, but with DDT's ASCII-display at the end of
each line.  In addition, LINKMAP displays the various other Microsoft REL
data in a compact form.

The syntax is simple:

		LINKMAP <filename> [<modulename>]
				   |            |
				   |            |
				    \          /
				      Optional

FILENAME should be a standard Microsoft-format REL file, and may be composed
of multiple modules.  If no filetype is specified, the type REL is assumed.

If <modulename> is entered, then LINKMAP will assume that the file is a library
of modules, and will display only the specified module (someday, this syntax
may be modified to allow a range of modules).

LINKMAP buffers an entire module in memory before displaying it, so there
is a noticeable delay when listing large modules.

Notation:

The following notational character set is used by LINKMAP to imply re-
location base information:

	Blank        ( ) : Absolute segment
	Single Quote (') : Code segment
	Double Quote (") : Data segment
	Excl. Mark   (!) : Common

For more information on the MicroSoft REL format, see the Microsoft
Utility Software Manual, LINK-80 Linking Loader section.

------------------------------------------------------------

Legal stuff:

This software is NOT public domain; it may be copied and distributed
through bulletin-board systems; it may be distributed via user groups
on diskettes, provided such distribution is not for profit.  LINKMAP
may NOT be distributed with a commercial hardware or software product
without express written permission of NightOwl Software, INC., Route 1,
Box, 7, Fort Atkinson, WI 53538.

NightOwl Software makes no representations or warranties with respect to
the contents hereof and specifcally disclaims any implied warranties of
merchantability or fitness for any particular purpose.

